So time to continue with our off form here.
There are a couple of places where you could start.
I'll start with the validation and with collecting all the user inputs.
And for that, let's start with the very first text form field here.
For the email address there, I will add the validator argument, which is a function that validates
the user input when prompted to.
So we get the value here, which is the value entered by the user and we can return a string which will
then be shown as an error message if we detect an error or return.
NULL if we have no error.
So the validation logic of what I apply here is very simple.
I'll check if value is empty.
And a very, very, very naive email address validation.
I'll check if the value does not contain.
Hence the exclamation mark at the beginning does not contain an ad symbol if either of the two is true.
So if it is empty or if we don't have an ad in the value, then I'll return an error text where I say
Please enter a valid email.
Address like this.
LS If we make it past this if statement here, I will return null because then everything is all right.
Now for the password there.
Of course, on the password we also should add some validation.
So let's add this validator function here and here.
I'll check if the value is empty.
Same check as before, and I'll also check the length.
If the length of the password is, let's say, smaller than six or smaller than seven.
That, by the way, is also the minimum length of Firebase ones.
So if it's smaller, if it's shorter than seven, then I'll return.
And sorry, that's the username.
I want to check this on the password so I'll cut it and add it on the password.
So here, if we're shorter than seven, I'll say.
Password must be at least seven characters long and only otherwise.
I'll return null here.
And here we need a semicolon.
So now with that, back to the username field here we have a validator where we also get the value and
it's up to you which validation logic you want.
I'll check for emptiness or also if the value length is, let's say, shorter than four.
So if we have a very short username, then I will say please enter at least four characters.
And otherwise justice and the other validators will return null.
So we get these validators, but right now they're never going to get triggered.
Now they should be triggered when the user presses this submit button here, this race button.
And we can trigger them all simultaneously through that forum.
That's what you also learned earlier in the course.
For that, we need such a global key.
You might remember this from the Forums module.
We create a form key for that by instantiating a global key which will contain some form state in the
end.
And with this generic type we can signal to dart that eventually some form state will be managed with
this key and we need to connect this key to the form.
So for that we go to the form widget and set the key argument of the form to our form key.
And with that form key added, we can also add a submit function.
I'll name it.
Try, submit, underscore, try, submit to mark that it's private and should only be called from inside
this class and then try submit.
We'll use that form key.
To validate the forum.
We get access to the forum through the current state property and then we can call validate.
And this will trigger all the validators of all the text forum fields in the forum.
This will return a result.
It will tell us whether the form is valid or not.
So I'll store this in a final.
Variable or constant, therefore.
We can then check if the form is valid and only if it is valid.
So if all validators return, null will continue and actually get the values and submit the form.
Now to get the values we can again use the form key current state and call save.
And what this will do is it will go to all the text form fields and on every text form field it will
trigger the on saved.
Function here.
So we need to add this to every text form field to set up the logic that should run.
When the entire form is being saved, the function that is triggered gets a value, which is the value
the user entered.
And then in there we need to do something with that value and that something I will do is I will store
the entered value in a global or a class wide property.
So for that, besides the final form key, I will add a string here, which is a true variable.
So which is not constant but variable user email.
Which initially is an empty string, let's say.
And I also get my user name here and also the user password.
So we got these free properties to find here.
And these are the properties will now update in the on safe methods.
So for example, I'll set user email to value.
Here we know it's valid.
Otherwise this wouldn't have executed because we only save the form if we do have valid inputs and therefore
we can save the entry value.
We don't need set state here because set state would only make one important difference.
It would reevaluate the widget and possibly render the UI.
But this is just some behind the scenes data which we need internally, and changing that data has no
impact on the UI, so there is no need to reevaluate and re render the UI.
Hence I'll just save it like this.
Now.
That's the logic we also need on all the other text form fields here for the username all set username
equal to the entered value and here on the password.
Unsurprisingly, we set user password equal to the entered value.
So all these properties are updated when safe is being called here.
And therefore after safe what's called, we can use those values to.
Send our auth requests to Firebase or anything like that.
We'll take care about this in a next step.
Now, one other thing I want to do after validating before we actually save everything.
I will use Focus Scope the focus scope class provided by Flutter, which needs a context which we have
available here in the state class to call unfocused.
This will essentially just close the soft keyboard, which might still be open as soon as we submit
the form so that the keyboard always closes because this will move the focus away from any input field
to nothing, basically.
And with all of that for the moment, I'll just print user email here and also repeat this for user
name and here for user password so that we at least see the values and try submit is now the method
that should be connected to this raised button here.
So on pressed will now point at try submit and we added like this without parentheses because we just
want to point at it so that it's executed on our behalf when the button is pressed by the user.
If we save that and we go back and I enter some email address here and I leave out the username, but
I do enter a password which is too short and a click login.
You see these error messages.
So that works.
And if I then fix all these errors here and I click log in.
This looks better and I clicked it twice, which is I see the outputs twice.
So submitting and getting these inputs works and that's great.
Now, of course, we don't just want to get and validate all these inputs.
We also want to switch between log in and sign up mode.
The mode we're in will change the labels on the buttons, but it will also change the text form fields.
We only want to fetch the username if we are signing up, not if we're logging in.
So therefore in the off form we should also manage some state.
Hence I'll add a new variable here.
A bull or actually a bar here because we can infer the type as we can down there since I set an initial
type.
So a VAR, which I'll name is log in, which initially, let's say is true and this controls whether
we currently are in log in mode or in sign up mode.
And this should be changed whenever this flat button at the bottom is pressed.
So whenever this flat button here is pressed, I want to switch.
So here in this anonymous function here we can set is log in equal to what it's currently.
Not to reverse it, but that should now be wrapped in a set state call so that the UI is also updated.
Because when we change the is log in mode, this does affect the UI.
So this needs to go into a set state call.
Now log in, for example, has an impact on this text here.
There.
We can check if is log in is true and with a ternary expression we can return a different value for
when it's true, then for when it's not true.
Because when it's true we can switch to the sign up mode.
So then we want to show create new account because that's the alternative to logging in.
Otherwise if it's false, we are in sign up mode and we want to allow the user to switch to log in mode.
So maybe a text like I already have an account is appropriate then.
And also here for the race button.
If we are in log and mode, I want to show the log in text.
But otherwise, if we are in sign up mode, I want to show sign up or sign up like this.
And if we now save this, we can click this button and these labels update.
Now, the username field, as I mentioned, is all the only required if we are signing up.
So this entire text form field here should only be added conditionally.
And we can do this with this pretty nice dart syntax where we add a if statement in disarray in this
widget array for the column and this item is then added and removed dynamically to and from the list
based on the condition in our if statement.
So here I can check if we're not in log in mode.
Whoops.
Log in.
And only if we are not.
The filter after will be added to the array, so the value thereafter will be added to the array.
So only if this is not true, this text form field will be part of the columns array.
If this is true.
So if is log in is true and therefore this is false, this will not be added.
Now you see some blue squiggly lines here because this is a dart feature which is only available since
version 2.3.
You might not have those lines.
If you do have them, you can go to pub spec, dot yaml and simply increase that minimum SDK version.
You want here to 2.3 and with that this goes away, it rebuilds.
And now you will see that if I click here, you see also that this input here appears and disappears.
So that's pretty nice.
But you will also notice a bug.
You see, if I'm in logging mode, we got a password entered, but if I click on create new account
that moves to username.
So actually the value in username now switches between the username field and the password field.
And that happens because we dynamically add and remove a text from field and inside of this array ladder
is not able to efficiently differentiate between these fields which are always the same widget.
I all discovered this earlier in the course, and you might remember that keys are a solution here.
Keys allow Flutter to uniquely identify an element if you have similar elements next to each other.
So we can add a key here to all these text firm fields, and we can create a value key which basically
allows us to hardcoded our own identifier.
And here we could add email on the email text firm field and on the username text from field we add
a username value key and on the password field we add a password key.
And with that, you'll see that this bug is no longer there.
If I now add Maximillian here in the username, if I now switch, you see it's gone in login mode and
it's also gone here because we remove the widget in the meantime, but it doesn't jump between password
and username.
So this bug is fixed.
And with that fixed side node, you will also see that, for example, the password and so on persists.
So if I enter this, you will see I can switch and we keep it.
So with that fixed, we now can work on really submitting that data and creating an actual user with
Firebase.